You may reduce the width of the centre panel and increase the right panel width.
The quote mode buttons should be completely sticky. I will make an attempt to brief you how it should be (from creating a estimate/client). First thing the quote setup should be renamed as Project/Work Detail in the left side bar. Under which (when clicked on that, the centre panel should show the Project/client info form and the job estimator where we enter the project info/client details, then add site(s) and job(s) with either geometry/boq with the present logic only which determines the scope/quantum of work (item qty/prime coat & tack coat qty). Then we click on each of the Mix types and check/edit/enter the mix details in the centre panel, then raw materials, plant equipment (in the plant equipment we are only catering to the plant crew, I think we should have labour cost fields (which we use the labour at plant to clean/clear jams during production and cleaning after production)). fuel/ldo/diesel form, now transportation should be there in the side menu and should show only the transportation to site form (presently it is also showing prime and tack coat form inside the transportation panel), then a new menu item Prime and Tack coats should be added and only the form of Prime and Tack coat should be displayed. Next the laying and compaction menu item needs to be added on the side bar, when clicked should open only the laying and compaction form (presently it is being shown under the labour and overhead which needs to be split), then comes the labour and overhead though there is no labour entry form separately, but will show the overhead and margin form only. All these forms in the centre panel will show expanded not collapsed, earlier since all these were on a single panel/page we kept them collapsed for convenience but since we have split them they may be displayed expanded, all these are masters (master data right?. 

Now, the detail scope of work menu item in the side bar has to be added which will show the scope groups with the components/elements with check boxes. This is abut the side bar and the centre panel.
Now the actual rates display which should be based on the quote mode and the scope elements selection.
You tell me where and how what will/should be shown/displayed. If necessary show me mockups on the canvas each screen 

None of the present forms/calculation logics should change. It is only filtering/gathering what is already there and displaying the rates, you are confusing more Krishna. The existing logics are fine, like the material procurement costs table which is totally disappeared from the module which is very essential though I slipped mentioning above. Whether full quote mode/full/partial scope quote, the materials whether in the client scope or hlc scope should be show somewhere. The same table with whatever logics it had. What you described above appears may require huge changes/may disturb the logics. I want you to just suggest showing the rates already being calculated/computed. Presently it is showing multiple rates, some places with materials transport laying compacting, etc, some places it is showing partial rates and I don't see any use of the recommended rates/quote though your concern of the app helping decide what to quote. What happens to the overhead and margin that we input in that section?